---
title:  "Hovercar"
date:   2011-02-03
author: "buildscc"
permalink: /news/:year/:month/:day/:title/
tag: [projects]
---

## Overview

The purpose of this project is to create a toy, possibly-remote controlled car that will hover and fly through the air, and will have sensors mounted that will enable it to avoid walls and change trajectory.

### Design

The actual hovercar will be about 1.5 - 2 feet in length/width and will consist of the propulsion mechanism, the sensors, and the controls. For propulsion, we will probably use a quad copter setup, as it gives us the most stability and movement capability. In order to make it hover, we can make it keep a constant altitude, and then it will move by throttling the individual propellers. The sensors will be placed to allow the hovercar to understand how close it is to walls/obstructions, and be able to avoid them. Our final goal is to create something that can move around on its own without crashing. We will also want to be able to control its movement, with a controller, or a computer.

### More stuff

If we manage to get all that to work an advanced feature would be to give the hovercar the capability to control its altitude, so it would sense how far it is away from the ground, and adjust output to get to a specified height. An add-on with that would be to give it the capability to remember the terrain under it, and so be able to change its motors automatically.

### Meetings

Our current meeting time is 8PM on Wed.

- Multitouch Table